---
title: About the Author
slug: about-the-author
unit: "0.2"
---
 KennethH.RosenhashadalongcareerasaDistinguished Member of theTechnical Staff
 atAT&TLaboratories in MonmouthCounty,NewJersey.Hecurrentlyholdstheposition
 of Visiting Research Professor at Monmouth University, where he teaches graduate courses in
 computer science.
 Dr. Rosen received his B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
 (1972), and his Ph.D. in Mathematics from M.I.T. (1976), where he wrote his thesis in the area
 of number theory under the direction of Harold Stark. Before joining Bell Laboratories in 1982,
 he held positions at the University of Colorado, Boulder; The Ohio State University, Columbus;
 and the University of Maine, Orono, where he was an associate professor of mathematics.
 While working atAT&T Labs, he taught at Monmouth University, teaching courses in discrete
 mathematics, coding theory, and data security. He currently teaches courses in algorithm design
 and in computer security and cryptography.
 Dr. Rosen has published numerous articles in professional journals in number theory and
 in mathematical modeling. He is the author of the widely used Elementary Number Theory and
 Its Applications, published by Pearson, currently in its sixth edition, which has been translated
 into Chinese. He is also the author of Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications, published by
 McGraw-Hill, currently in its seventh edition. Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications has
 sold more than 350,000 copies in NorthAmerica during its lifetime, and hundreds of thousands
 of copies throughout the rest of the world. This book has also been translated into Spanish,
 French, Greek, Chinese,Vietnamese, and Korean. He is also co-author of UNIX: The Complete
 Reference;UNIXSystemVRelease4:AnIntroduction;andBestUNIXTipsEver,allpublishedby
 Osborne McGraw-Hill. These books have sold more than 150,000 copies, with translations into
 Chinese, German, Spanish, and Italian. Dr. Rosen is also the editor of the Handbook of Discrete
 and Combinatorial Mathematics, published by CRC Press, and he is the advisory editor of the
 CRCseries of books in discrete mathematics, consisting of more than 55 volumes on different
 aspectsofdiscretemathematics,mostofwhichareintroducedinthisbook.Dr.Rosenservesasan
 Associate Editor for the journal Discrete Mathematics, where he works with submitted papers in
 several areas of discrete mathematics, including graph theory, enumeration, and number theory.
 Heis also interested in integrating mathematical software into the educational and professional
 environments, and worked on several projects with Waterloo Maple Inc.’s MapleTM software
 in both these areas. Dr. Rosen has also worked with several publishing companies on their
 homework delivery platforms.
 AtBellLaboratoriesandAT&TLaboratories,Dr.Rosenworkedonawiderangeofprojects,
 including operations research studies, product line planning for computers and data communi
cations equipment, andtechnologyassessment. HehelpedplanAT&T’sproductsandservicesin
 the area of multimedia, including video communications, speech recognition, speech synthesis,
 and image networking. He evaluated new technology for use byAT&T and did standards work
 in the area of image networking. He also invented many new services, and holds more than 55
 patents. One of his moreinteresting projects involved helping evaluate technology for theAT&T
 attraction that was part of EPCOT Center